Variables
1. What is a variable? Why might a programmer use a variable?
A variable is used to store data. It can be in the form of a letter or a string. A programmer uses a variable to create methods or to make a problem easier to look at. 
2. If the value of first_name is "Abraham" and last_name is "Lincoln", explain the order in which Ruby will run the line full_name = first_name + last_name, and what the final result will be.
It will put the strings for the first and last name together and set the variable full_name to equal “AbrahamLincoln”
Data Types
3. For each of the following data types, write a short definition and give at least one example of when you might use the data type in a program. (Don't use an example we've already provided.)

string- It is a combination of letters; When you have an input of words
integer- Whole numbers; when you have items to count
float-Numbers to the decimal point ; when you have an equation that doesn’t result in whole numbers
nil- nonexistent; when no input is entered
boolean-true or false; when there are only two answers to a problem which are yes or no/true or false
Algorithms- a set of steps for the program to read to execute an action/ series of actions; when you need ruby to run a series of actions
4. What is an algorithm?
Its like a procedure or a series of directions.
5. What are two common categories of algorithm in computer science? 
Arrays and sorting
Methods
6. What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?
A method is when you set expressions to return you a value. You use a method so you can run an expression or series of expressions multiple times without having to retype the code.
7. Define the following terms as they relate to a method. 

return value- what a method will produce when called
side effect- everything else that is not the return value or the expression of the method
parameter- guidelines for the method
argument- the expression of the method
implicit return- a return that is given when not asked for the method
8. What are global scope and method scope? How do those scopes impact the availability of data at different points in a program?
Global scope is when a variable can be called anywhere but a method scope is when the variable can only be called within the method. It does affect the availability of the variable depending on where you are within the code.  
Control Flow
9. What is control flow? Why might a programmer choose to use flow control?
Control flow is there so we can have different outcomes depending on the user’s input.
10. Define the following terms as they relate to flow control.

loop- it repeats the given code 
if- sets a parameter for the code
else- gives an alternative solution if parameter is not met
elsif- gives multiple solutions if parameter is not 
while- sets a parameter for the code while the code meets this
until- sets parameter up until the code meets this